Cinnamon Rolls
This easy cinnamon roll recipe bakes perfectly gooey and soft rolls. Tender and fluffy dough is swirled with sweet cinnamon brown sugar and topped with sweet cream cheese icing for the best cinnamon rolls!
Save Recipe Print Recipe
Course Breakfast, Dessert
Cuisine American
Prep Time 15 minutes minutes
Cook Time 20 minutes minutes
Rising time 2 hours hours 30 minutes minutes
Total Time 3 hours hours 5 minutes minutes
Servings 12 rolls
Calories 504kcal
Author John Kanell
Video
Equipment

    ▢
    Mixing Bowls
    ▢
    Stand mixer
    ▢
    9×13-inch baking pan
    ▢
    Rolling Pin

Ingredients
For the Dough:

    ▢ 1 cup warm milk (110-120F) (240mL)
    ▢ 5 tablespoons granulated sugar (63g)
    ▢ 2¼ teaspoons active dry yeast (.25oz/7g packet)
    ▢ 4⅔ cups all-purpose flour plus more for dusting (560g)
    ▢ ⅓ packed light brown sugar (73g)
    ▢ ½ cup unsalted butter melted (113g)
    ▢ 1 large egg room temperature
    ▢ 1 tablespoon vanilla extract
    ▢ 1½ teaspoon salt
    ▢ ½ teaspoon cinnamon

For the Filling:

    ▢ 6 tablespoons unsalted butter room temperature (85g)
    ▢ ½ cup light brown sugar (110g)
    ▢ 1½ tablespoons cinnamon

For the Glaze:

    ▢ 4 ounces cream cheese room temperature (113g)
    ▢ 2 tablespoons butter room temperature
    ▢ 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
    ▢ Pinch of salt
    ▢ 2 cups powdered sugar (240g)
    ▢ 1 to 2 tablespoons milk

Instructions
For the Dough:

    In a large mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook attachment, stir together the warm milk, granulated sugar, and yeast. Let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.
    Add the remaining ingredients. Begin mixing on low speed until the mixture starts to come together. Increase the speed to medium-low and continue kneading until the dough is springy and tacky to the touch but doesn’t stick to your fingers, 8 to 10 minutes.
    Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled large bowl. Cover and let rise in a warm place (about 75F) until doubled in size, about 1½ to 2 hours.
    Lightly grease a 9×13-inch baking pan with butter or baking spray
    Turn out the dough onto a well-floured surface. Roll the dough into roughly a 12×24-inch rectangle.

For the Filling:

    Spread the butter onto the dough in a thin and even layer, leaving a ½-inch border down one long side of the dough. (make sure your butter is very soft! If it’s still firm, microwave it in 5-second increments until easily spreadable.)
    In a small bowl, stir together the sugar and cinnamon. Sprinkle the cinnamon sugar all over the butter.
    Starting at one long end opposite the unbuttered border, roll up the dough into a tight log. Cut the log into 12 equal pieces (about 2 inches wide) using a sharp serrated knife or unflavored dental floss.
    Place the rolls cut side down evenly spaced in the prepared baking dish. Loosely cover and let rise in a warm place until almost doubled in size, about 1 hour.
    Preheat the oven to 350F while rising.
    Uncover and bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until lightly browned on top. Place on a wire rack to cool.

For the Glaze:

    While the rolls are baking, combine the cream cheese, butter, vanilla and salt in a medium mixing bowl. Beat together on medium speed until smooth. Sift in the powdered sugar and beat on low speed until well combined. For a thinner consistency, beat in 1 to 2 tablespoons of milk.
    When the rolls are right out of the oven, spread a third of the glaze over the hot rolls. Let cool for 5 minutes, then spread the remaining glaze on top. The rolls are best enjoyed warm but can be covered and stored at room temperature for 2 days.

Notes

    Kneading options. If you have a stand mixer, knead the dough with the dough hook attachment. Otherwise, you can knead the dough on a lightly floured surface or counter. Give the dough a good long kneading – at least 8 to 10 minutes – or until it stretches evenly and doesn’t stick to your hands or the counter.
    Proof the dough in a warm but not hot place. The ideal proofing temperature is around 75°. I often proof the rolls in the oven with the heat off but the oven light on. Other great places are on a sunny counter, on top of the refrigerator, or in any other warm place in your house or kitchen.
    Spread the rolled dough with very soft, room-temperature butter. If it is still firm, microwave it in 5-second intervals until it is easily spreadable.
    Use a ceramic or glass baking pan. Using ceramic or glass creates the softest rolls. Metal conducts heat better and can dry out the rolls on the edges and corners of the pan. They will still bake up fine in metal, but they won’t all be as soft and the outer rolls will have more of a crust.
    Frost the rolls in two steps. This will allow the frosting to melt into the layers of the swirl while also accumulating on top. Swipe ⅓ of the cream cheese frosting over the hot buns immediately after they come out of the oven; spread on the rest of the frosting 5 minutes later, after the buns have cooled slightly.
